spec/front-matter.md, before:

# F# Language Specification

This documentation is work-in-progress, aiming at a F# 10 specification.
<br>It has been built based on the [F# 4.1 spec](https://fsharp.org/specs/language-spec/4.1/FSharpSpec-4.1-latest.pdf)
and does not yet incorporate all RFCs.

## Included RFCs

| RFC id | Topic |
| --- | --- |
| 4.0 speclet | class names as functions |
| FS-1004 | result type |
| FS-1005 | underscores in numerical fields |
| FS-1006 | struct tuples |
| FS-1091 | units of measure for more types |

## Notices

_Authors of the original F# spec:  <br> Don Syme, with assistance from Anar Alimov, Keith Battocchi, Jomo Fisher, Michael Hale, Jack Hu, Luke Hoban, Tao Liu, Dmitry Lomov,  James Margetson, Brian McNamara, Joe Pamer, Penny
Orwick, Daniel Quirk, Kevin Ransom, Chris Smith, Matteo Taveggia, Donna Malayeri, Wonseok Chae,
Uladzimir Matsveyeu, Lincoln Atkinson, and others.<br>For contributors to the later versions, see the github history / insights._

_© 2005 - 2025 various contributors. Made available under the [Creative Commons CC-by 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) licence._

_Product and company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners._

_The sources for this content can be found on [github](https://github.com/fsharp/fslang-spec)._

Commit message:

Add FS-1031 (#57)
Add FS-1031 (allow implementing the same generic interface for different types in
the same enclosing type).

spec/front-matter.md, after:

# F# Language Specification

This documentation is work-in-progress, aiming at a F# 10 specification.
<br>It has been built based on the [F# 4.1 spec](https://fsharp.org/specs/language-spec/4.1/FSharpSpec-4.1-latest.pdf)
and does not yet incorporate all RFCs.

## Included RFCs

| RFC id | Topic |
| --- | --- |
| 4.0 speclet | class names as functions |
| FS-1004 | result type |
| FS-1005 | underscores in numerical fields |
| FS-1006 | struct tuples |
| FS-1031 | allow implementing the same generic interface for different types in the same enclosing type |
| FS-1091 | units of measure for more types |

## Notices

_Authors of the original F# spec:  <br> Don Syme, with assistance from Anar Alimov, Keith Battocchi, Jomo Fisher, Michael Hale, Jack Hu, Luke Hoban, Tao Liu, Dmitry Lomov,  James Margetson, Brian McNamara, Joe Pamer, Penny
Orwick, Daniel Quirk, Kevin Ransom, Chris Smith, Matteo Taveggia, Donna Malayeri, Wonseok Chae,
Uladzimir Matsveyeu, Lincoln Atkinson, and others.<br>For contributors to the later versions, see the github history / insights._

_© 2005 - 2025 various contributors. Made available under the [Creative Commons CC-by 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) licence._

_Product and company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners._

_The sources for this content can be found on [github](https://github.com/fsharp/fslang-spec)._
